# User Interface Overview

## Introduction

PSS®ODMS follows the Microsoft Windows^®^ user interface style
guidelines with usability in mind. The various menus, toolbars, windows,
dialogs and controls provide a familiar Windows application
look-and-feel. As with any Windows application, the commands used to
drive the program are accessible via menus and toolbars. This chapter
first describes how to launch PSS®ODMS and presents an overview of the
user interface.

## Launching PSS^®^ODMS {#LinkTarget_3294}

PSS®ODMS can be launched from the installed desktop icon or from the
Windows Start menu. A brief splash screen appears when PSS®ODMS is
started.

Note: Enable the checkable File>Reconnect at Startup option to
automatically open the most recent database model when PSS®ODMS is
launched.

## Main Menu {#LinkTarget_3295}

PSS®ODMS has a familiar main menu style adopted by many Windows
applications. The main menu includes the following items:

-   File - contains commands for opening/closing a database connection,
    printing, and exiting the application

-   Edit - contains standard Windows editing commands such as Cut, Copy,
    Paste, Undo, etc.

-   View - contains commands that affect the view of the currently
    active document window

-   Model - contains commands related to database model management

-   Diagram - contains commands related to diagram management and
    settings

-   Analysis - contains commands related to system simulation/analysis
    functions

-   Tools -contains commands to activate Model Maintenance or System
    Operation functions, commands to set individual toolbar visibility
    and other miscellaneous functions

-   Window - contains standard Windows commands related to document
    window management/positioning

-   Help - contains commands for opening the PSS®ODMS Help window,
    registering the product and displaying the About box

To pull down the list of commands from the main menu, left-click the
appropriate main menu item or press the ALT key and the first letter in
the item name. For example, to pull down the File menu, you can either
click the word File or press ALT+F. This displays the list of commands
under the File menu. To access one of the commands in the File menu,
left-click on the command.

According to the Windows user interface style guidelines, menus are
context-sensitive. Some menus and commands will be visible/invisible or
enabled/disabled depending on various factors such as license
configuration, application-specific modes, the active document window
and any currently selected item(s).

## Online Help {#LinkTarget_3296}

For a complete listing and description of all of the main menu commands,
open the PSS®ODMS Help window by pressing the F1 key or clicking the
Help Topics command under the Help menu.

## Context Menus {#LinkTarget_3297}

Context-sensitive pop-up menus can be launched by right-clicking in
various windows throughout the application, including diagrams, CIMedit,
and Analysis spreadsheets. When any menu item is selected, PSS®ODMS
displays a description of its function in the bottom-left of the
application window in the Status bar.

![Menu Command Description
Text](/images/PSSODMS_UserManual_2014-10-17114243_img_10.png)

## Toolbars {#LinkTarget_3298}

Toolbars are provided for fast access to commonly used commands.
Individual commands are grouped into separate dockable toolbars
according to function. PSS®ODMS toolbars include File, Projects/History,
Display, Construction, Analysis and Contour. In most cases, each toolbar
button has a corresponding menu command (with the Construction toolbar
being the one exception).

User Interface Overview

Hover the cursor over any toolbar button to see its corresponding
Tooltip. Additionally, the command description is displayed in the
Status bar (the same as with menu items).

![PSS®ODMS
Toolbars](/images/PSSODMS_UserManual_2014-10-17114243_img_11.png)

Toolbars may be repositioned and/or re-docked at will. Additionally,
individual toolbar visibility can be set from the Tools menu.

## Status Bar {#LinkTarget_3299}

The Status bar is located at the bottom of the PSS®ODMS main window.
This bar displays various information about the current functional state
as well as context-sensitive information dependent on cursor
positioning. When Network Analysis functions are enabled, it also
displays color-coded solution status indicators (for more detail, refer
to [???](#LinkTarget_8732)).

![PSS®ODMS Status
Bar](/images/PSSODMS_UserManual_2014-10-17114243_img_12.png)

## Document Windows {#LinkTarget_3300}

Various windows presented by the PSS®ODMS application, including
diagrams, CIMedit, and Analysis spreadsheets and text output are managed
as document windows. Any number of document windows can be open at any
given time, but only one can have the focus; all mouse and keyboard
input is directed to this window. Document windows can be sized,
arranged, tiled, minimized/maximized, etc. within the main PSS®ODMS
application window. Document windows can not be dragged outside of the
application window.

## Dialog Windows {#LinkTarget_3301}

Many settings and options are presented in dialog windows which are
launched by various menu/toolbar commands. Most dialogs are modal; all
input is exclusively directed to the dialog until it has been dismissed
(typically by clicking on an OK or Cancel button).

![Example Dialog
Window](/images/PSSODMS_UserManual_2014-10-17114243_img_13.png)

## Message Boxes {#LinkTarget_3302}

Message boxes are presented by the software under certain conditions for
various reasons, such as to inform the user of an error or warning, or
to confirm an action that can not be undone. As with modal dialog
windows, a message box typically must be dismissed before any other
activities can be performed.

![Example Message
Box](/images/PSSODMS_UserManual_2014-10-17114243_img_14.png)
